"Rate Limiting" why is it needed ?

If a user starts spamming the refresh page OR spams the insert expenses button there with random expenses randomly there : this will send a lot of requests to the server continuously there ; then the server may become overloaded and the application may break and server may crash if multiple users starts doing so, thus here below.

"Rate Limiting" is a way to control how often someone can do something on a website or application, like how many times they can refresh a page, make a request to an API or try to log in.

We can thus put some limits like : "Only 100 requests per user every 15 minutes"

So, when a user is sending requests to an API, we can in between have a rate limiter to control the number of requests that can be passed, thus here below.

So, if we put rate limiter of 100 requests, then 100 requests will respond successfully on the server , but the 101th request can throw an error like "Too many requests, please try again later".

The status code for this is "429" which means "Too Many requests".

Rate Limiting thus helps with:

- preventing abuse (eg: stopping someone from making 1000 login attempts in 1 minute or so....)
- protecting servers from getting overwhelmed OR overloaded

Its like a middleware thats present just before the server sends a response back, we check if its safe or not and then send a response accordingly thus there.

And then based on the Rate Limiter, we will send a response back ; i.e. either SUCCESS or it will be FAILED , based on the limit we have put up there.

We can implement this using Redis database OR rate Limiting package as well ; these are provided to us by "UPSTASH".

Go on : upstash.com > login using google "nischaykumar.dev" account as github already being used by ByteShop app there > name the database > choose mumbai region > choose free plan > create.

Get the UPSTASH url for env file and then also get the TOKEN too for the env file there.

Then we copy the codes from documentation and paste in the "upstash.js" file.

So, see the next steps in upstash.js file now there.